
TITANIC’S   DISASTER   ranks   as   one   of   the   highestmankind  disaster  in  history.  This  tragedy  shocked  theinternational  community  and  led  to  better  safety  regulationsfor   ships.   The   RMS   Titanic   was   a   passenger   ship   fromSouthampton  to  New  York,  that  sank  after  colliding  with  aniceberg during its first trip in the northern Atlantic Ocean on15  April  1912.  There  was  an  estimate  of  2,224  passengersexcluding  crew  members  and  about  1,500  died  from  thatwhich  made  Titanic  the  biggest  disaster  in  modern  history.The  RMS  Titanic  was  the  biggest  ship  at  that  time  whichcontains  different  classes  for  the  passengers.  The  passengersincluded males and females of different age groups. The aimis  to  correctly  predict  someone’s  survival  based  on  featureslike  gender,  cabin,  etc.  Main  reasons  for  the  loss  of  life  wasdue  to  lack  of  enough  lifeboats  in  the  ship.  However,  thesurvival of people included many factors such as upper-class,women and children

The goal of this project is to predict the survival rate of the passangers onboard using modelling techniques like  LogisticRegression, DecisionTreeClassifier, RandomForest-Classifier, Gradient-boosted tree classifier, NaiveBayes, Support Vector Machine. 

The platform used for performing the analytics was data bricks. The steps performed during the analysis process are as follows:
1) Data Cleaning: There were many null values in the data set which was firsty counted using a function. As there were null values in the column `Age`, `Embarked` and `survived`, the `mean` value of the column age was calculated, which produced the mean value as 29 years. As as there were people of diffrent ages onboard, it was not suitable to fill the missing entries with mean data. Hence the initials of the name was checked to identify the age category to which different passengers belongs to. The mean age for diffrent age categories were calculated and the passangers with inital `Miss` were provided with an age of `22 ` years, `Master` with `5` years, `Mr` with `33` years, `Mrs` with `36`years and `Others` with `46` years respectively.
For the column `Embarked`, the class that embarked majority of the passengers were calculated and the result observed was S-class. Hence the class S was filled to the null fields.
For the column `cabin`, as there were a lot of null values that could make the analysis process complex, that column was dropped
2) Exploratory Data Anlysis: Using exploratory analysis, the features that powered the survival of passengers were identified. It was observed that, the passengers from the P-Class `2` survived the most when compared with the passengers from other class. It was also found on the analysis based on gender that, most of the passenger who demised was males. 
3) Feature Transformation: As there were some categorical values involved in the dataset like `Sex`,`Embarked` and `Initial`, those columns were tranformed to lable indices using `stringIndexer` and all the features that were used for making the prediction was merged into a single cokumn called `features` using the `VectorAssembler`. 
4) Splitting the dataset: The cleaned data set with feature columns selceted, transformed and merged was divided for the purpose of training and testing where 80% of the total data was contributed towards training and the rest 20% was contributed towards testing. 
5) Model Creation: Diffrent models were created using the algorithms LogisticRegression, DecisionTreeClassifier, RandomForest-Classifier, Gradient-boosted tree classifier, NaiveBayes, Support Vector Machine. The training data was used for creating the model and the created model was evaluated using the test data. Support Vector Machine and Logistic Regression models provided the best accuracy in survival rate prediction. Succeeding that, Gradient Boosted tree predicted the second-best result. 
6) Accuracy Calculation: The accuracy and test error of different models were evaluated using the evaluators.
